After the Beijing Xicheng District Development and Reform Commission, the Zhangbei County Government and related enterprises, the agreement on the introduction of the big data cross-domain channel project in Zhangbei County was officially reached recently, adding another dazzling touch to the construction of "China's Digital Dam".
In the information age, data is an important new factor of production. In recent years, new industries and new formats driven by data have emerged, showing great potential in promoting employment and optimizing governance. Zhangbei County is not only adjacent to Beijing, the main position of software technology innovation, but also has superior climatic conditions and abundant green energy, making it the most suitable area for the development of the big data industry in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region. After several years of hard work, many high-end talents have gathered here, and cutting-edge technologies have been continuously applied, and a good data industry ecology has taken shape.
Behind the powerful beating of Zhang Bei's "big data heart", there is a unique resource endowment, and it is inseparable from the overall thinking of coordinated development. In terms of top-level design, the governments of Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei have successively formulated guidelines for promoting the development of cloud computing and big data industries, and actively promoted the co-construction and sharing of public basic information. From the signing of the "Beijing-Zhangjiakou Joint Construction of Strategic Emerging Industry System Cooperation Agreement" to the clear positioning of Zhangbei County as a characteristic functional area of ​​the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Big Data Comprehensive Pilot Zone, all of these have effectively provided a strong guarantee for the development of related fields. In terms of infrastructure construction, the three places insist on breaking barriers and helping data elements realize cross-domain circulation. Take this project as an example, in order to promote the transfer of Beijing's big data industry to Zhangbei County, in addition to the deployment of large-core optical cables in the Beijing section and the Hebei section, a digital economy innovation research institute will be established in Zhangbei to help the transformation of local industries. upgrade. "Thinking in one place, working hard in one place", with concerted efforts, the small county town, which has been based on agriculture since ancient times, has achieved a leap in the development of high-tech industries.
From a larger perspective, to further activate the spring water of the data industry, we must continue to deepen the coordinated development. At present, the agglomeration effect of Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei big data industry is gradually emerging, and major projects such as Beijing Zhangbei Cloud Computing Industrial Base and National Supercomputing Tianjin Center continue to release development dividends, benefiting the people in the three places. However, it should be noted that the data industry in some regions is still dominated by relatively low-end storage functions, and the pace of development is slow. It is urgent to make efforts in applications and transactions at the top of the industrial chain. On the one hand, relevant departments in various regions have the responsibility to optimize the business environment to attract outstanding enterprises and talents across the country and achieve breakthroughs in technological innovation; on the other hand, they must continue to break down institutional barriers and introduce favorable policies to ensure safety and reliability. On the premise of helping the government, enterprises and other subjects to achieve resource sharing.
Those who observe the trend are wise, and those who control the trend win. Let the data elements flow fully and the industrial vitality can be fully stimulated, and the development of the three places will surely usher in a broader blue ocean.